Well, here we are at the beginning of the Linton season.
And we are kicking off a series called An Unlikely Lint by Rachel Billips, who is a pastor in the West Ohio annual conference.
We loved her series An Unlikely Advent several years ago.
So when this came out, it just seemed natural to go ahead and engage this series.
This series, this is about the people who are on the edges of the Linton story.
The people that we don't hear about very much because we don't focus on them very much.
And their scriptures come up the last week during Holy Week.
We don't stop and read those scriptures out loud.
So this week is an unlikely offering.
And it's about Mary of Bethany.
who pours out oil on Jesus' feet and teaches us what it means to be an offering to God.
Please stand for the reading of the gospel this morning from John the 12th chapter, verses one through eight.
The Gospel of John chapter 12 verses one through eight.
I'm reading from the new revised standard version updated edition.
Six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, the home of Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
There they gave a dinner for him.
Martha served in Lazarus was one of those reclining with him.
Mary took a pound of costly perfume, made of pure nard, anointed Jesus' feet and wiped them with her hair.
The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
But Judas is scarier, one of Jesus' disciples.
The one who was about to betray him said, why was this perfume not sold for 300 denarii and the money given to the poor?
He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief.
He kept the common person used to steal what was put in it.
Jesus said,
Leave her alone.
She bought it so that she might keep it for the day of my burial.
You always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me."
And here now from the Gospel of Luke, just a little bit of a different twist
on this story from the Gospel of Luke chapter 7 verses 36 through 50.
One of the Pharisees asked Jesus to eat with him and when he went into the Pharisee's house he reclined to dine.
And a woman in the city who was a sinner having learned that he was eating in the Pharisee's house brought an alabaster jar of ointment.
She stood behind him at his feet, weeping and began to bathe his feet with her tears and to dry them with her hair, kissing his feet and anointing them with the ointment.
Now, when the Pharisees who had invited him saw him, he said to himself, if this man were a prophet,
He would have known who and what kind of woman this is who is touching him, that she is a sinner.
Jesus spoke up and said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you.
Teacher, he replied, speak.
A certain moneylender had two debtors.
One owed 500 denarii and the other 50.
When they could not pay, he canceled the debts for both of them.
Now which of them will love him more?
Simon answered, I suppose the one for whom he canceled the greater debt.
And Jesus said to him, you have judged rightly.
Then turning toward the woman,
He said to Simon, do you see this woman?
I entered your house.
You gave me no water for my feet, but she has bathed my feet with her tears and dried them with her hair.
You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in, she has not stopped kissing my feet.
You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
Therefore I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven.
Hence, she has shown great love.
But the one to whom little is forgiven loves little.
Then he said to her, your sins
are forgiven.
But those who are at the table with him began to say among themselves, who is this who even forgives sins?
But he said to the woman, your faith has saved you.
Go in peace.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Let us pray.
Lord, here we are to worship, here we are to bow down, here we are to say that you are indeed our worthy and our holy God.
So fall fresh on us.
Blow a fresh wind and a fresh fire through this place.
Make a mess, Lord.
Pour out your anointing, your fresh anointing on us so that we will never be the same.
Speak, Lord, for your servants are listening.
It is in the name of Jesus the Christ that we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
The gospel lessons this morning remind us that the Bible helps us to enter the life of Jesus at different points.
We can hear similar stories and know they are not the same, but understand that they are moving us to the same place.
This story of a woman, whether it be Mary of Bethany in the Gospel of John or an unnamed sinning woman in the Gospel of Luke, they remind us that the storytellers, the Gospel writers are trying to get us to understand who Jesus is and why we should be following the Most High God.
It reminds us that this Bible is not to be worshiped, but God is to be worshiped.
And that the Bible is a roadmap to help us worship the Most High God.
The biblical scholars will tell us that all of these texts have a problem, Ms. Ruby.
that the original texts don't mention Martha's name, the mother, the sister of Mary of Bethany, and that we're not sure whether this was Mary, the sister of Martha Lazarus, or whether it really was Mary Magdalene, but because late early in the 15th century, people decided that Mary of Magdalene was a collar lady, she is not.
Mary Magdalene is not a prostitute.
Somebody put that into your mind.
It's not there.
So we know we have some trouble with these manuscripts and that every time we encounter women in the gospel writings, we have some trouble because the men have messed around in the text.
What we should know is that Mary, whomever, whichever Mary this is, was a follower of Jesus.
And this Mary followed Jesus around and understood the assignment, as the young people say.
She understood that Jesus was on his way to Calvary, that he was on a journey to suffer and to die and to be resurrected so that you and I might have life and have it in abundance.
We might call this Mary one of the disciples of Jesus if we didn't live in such a patriarchal society.
And maybe just maybe we would call these Mary's and the ones who continue to show up and to offer themselves to God.
We might call them the first evangelists, the holders and the sharers of the good news who transform
The lives of others.
If that messed you up a little bit, it's okay.
Just sign on the Bible study.
We'll work through it.
Isn't that right, Dr. Tucker?
We have to understand where we are in time and history to understand what's going on and what God is trying to teach us in these texts.
So just like in the children sermon today, I ask you what is an offering.
We throw the word offering around as if it's something simple.
We throw the word offering around as if it does not have any gravitas to it.
And offering is a sacrificial, voluntary, willing
Most of the time unasked for gift.
Years ago, I had the flu over and over and over again, and I thought that I was over it.
And by the summer, I went to preach at a Black clergy women's conference, Ms. Ruby.
And I had never been a sweating preacher before.
You know, I'd seen the preachers who walk around with a rag in their hands and are always wiping their brow, but that had never been me before.
Lisa, I didn't have a rag.
But I got up to preach at the Black Clergy Women's event in July of 2018 and I could not stop sweating.
One of my clergy sisters said, are you okay?
Are you feeling okay?
Because she knew I wasn't the sweating preacher time.
Oh yeah, I'm fine.
It's just been a rough year.
I almost didn't make it through that sermon, Dr. Bob.
I felt like I was going to pass out.
I was so hot and so sweaty, and my voice was going in and out.
And I was really disappointed because I was excited about the word that the Lord had that day.
But I didn't feel like I could do it justice.
And I preached and I preached and I preached and I walked off the stage in that hotel with my head hung a little low because it just didn't come off the way I thought it should.
By the time I got home from that conference, there was a box sitting on my doorstep.
And wouldn't you know, it was a box full
of Braggs.
A little note that said, if you need these, here they are.
I know that doesn't mean anything to you.
But a month later, my nervous system quit.
I could not regulate my own temperature.
And those rags became the thing that sustained me, that allowed me to go out of my house without being embarrassed because I was always sweating.
Those rags became an unlikely offering to me that changed the way that I see sweaty preachers and changed the way that I understand what I need to not be distracted in my preaching and to understand that sometimes all you need is for somebody to see you.
To really see you.
to understand that something different is going on, to understand that something is changing, to understand that you have a need that you are unaware of.
And that's what's happening in the Gospel message this morning.
Mary of Bethany shows up with a gift that nobody else thinks is needed.
Mary of Bethany shows up with an unlikely offering that nobody should have been able to afford.
There were lots of questions.
How does she have that?
Where does she get that from?
If we go back to Luke, who did she sleep with to get that?
Can we tell the truth?
And if we do tell the truth, we know that we have these questions for people today.
How's she get that job?
How's she get that house?
What did she do to get that car?
Mary shows that with a bottle of anointing oil or ointment that was worth an entire year's salary.
It was so big that I'm not sure how she got it in there without them knowing that it was there.
It was a pound of nard, one of the most smelly elements on this earth.
As soon as she opened that Bible, those of you who have sent issues like me, as soon as she opened that bottle, those of you who have sent issues like me would have just started.
It would have filled the room.
and overwhelmed the people.
And Tony, she poured it all over Jesus.
She poured it on His feet and got it in the carpet.
She got it in the nice seats.
She got it in everything.
And the people were big mad.
Why would you do that?
Why would you make a mess?
Why would you waste
Such an expensive product.
But Mary knew something we didn't know.
Jesus offerings often disturbed people.
Write that down.
Put a pin in it in your brain so you can come back to it later.
Jesus offerings often disturbed people.
Jesus offered the gift of healing.
Jesus offered the gift of forgiveness.
Jesus offered the gift of life without any qualms.
And it made people angry.
It disturbed them.
They had to ask questions.
Why would you do that?
She's supposed to go to the doctor and bankrupt herself so that she can get healed.
She's supposed to go to the priest and embarrass herself so that she can be forgiven.
Jesus offerings often disturb people just like Mary's offering disturbed Judas.
When's the last time you gave Jesus something that disturbed some other people?
Jesus calls for counter-cultural offerings for the raising of the dead.
Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead from healing the sick, restoring relationships.
Jesus offerings often disturb the very people who are supposed to understand.
How dare the disciples say that that perfume was too costly for Jesus?
This is the one they left everything behind for.
They said they were going to take up their crosses and follow Jesus.
They called him teacher.
They called him rabbi.
They called him the one to learn from.
They followed him everywhere.
And yet they said this perfume was too good for him.
The word of nointed that is used in this John text is the same word that is used in the gospel over and over again to talk about preparing a body for burial.
Mary knew that this was not same old, same old.
Mary knew that there was something different here.
Mary knew that an offering is voluntary, that it is a result of an observed need, that it is often not requested, that it is sacrificial, and that it is generous.
But so many of us are like Judas.
You can say ouch if you want to.
So many of us are like Judas, we are being counters.
We say, why would you do that?
It's a waste.
Where did that money come from?
Well, you don't need to worry about that.
Could it not be better utilized by?
The Gospel mandate is to love God and to love people.
And yet our offerings are not anywhere close to disturbing.
The second point here, the first one is that Jesus' offerings are often disappointed.
The second point here is that unlikely offerings grab our attention and leave us wondering why.
Who knows how Mary got that anointing oil?
Who knows?
I mean, who cares?
Why do we care so much?
I read so many commentaries.
These are things that inform what we learned about the scripture.
I studied so much for this text.
I read so many commentaries.
So many of the scholars were overwhelmed and almost pathological about how did she get this?
And why would she do this?
Unlikely offerings arrest our attention and often leave us wondering why, because as Pastor Rachel says, the beauty of an unlikely offering is that it catches the world off guard.
It does not follow the rules of practicality.
Rather, an unlikely offering comes from within.
It comes without fanfare.
It carries the intoxicating fragrance
of God's love into spaces that are so desperately in need.
Maybe we don't need to be so preoccupied with where it came from.
Maybe that's none of our business.
Maybe we don't need to be preoccupied with people's motives.
Maybe what we need to be concerned about is whether the offering is about God's love and whether it shares God's love in ways that overwhelm the spaces that so desperately need to experience the love of God.
Here's the third point.
Unlikely offerings need not be perfect.
They don't need to be Instagram worthy.
They don't need to make sense to anyone.
They just need to come with a willing heart.
In this life, we will have opportunities to listen to our willing hearts and to give God a gift that does not make sense.
And by give God, I mean giving to a person, giving to an organization, giving to the church, yielding some act of service, being a part of some challenge of generosity or even a worship challenge during Lent to show up every Sunday in the Lenten season.
But there will be some opportunity for an offering.
And the question is, will you wait until you can do it perfectly, or will you do it when God says do it?
Because Mary had access.
She could have pulled Jesus to the side.
She didn't have to show everybody her vulnerability.
She didn't have to share her tears with everybody.
She didn't need to use her hair.
If she had enough money to buy the oil that was a whole year's wages, let me tell you she could have afforded a towel.
She didn't pitch pennies.
She didn't use the theology of scarcity that we have running rampant in this society.
She didn't lean into selfishness.
She didn't worry about what the status quo was or what the rules are.
She took the oil.
She broke open the alabaster box.
She poured that whole pound of oil on Jesus' feet.
Weeping.
while she was doing it.
Not fully understanding that in just a few days those feet would be pierced for her transgressions and for our transgressions.
Not fully understanding that those same feet were getting to walk to death.
Not fully understanding that those same feet would be used and abused would be bruised and beat for our sake.
Not fully understanding that the next time she would see him, his blood would be dripping from the cross.
And yet she poured out that whole bottle of oil on Jesus as an offering of her faith, an offering of her love, an offering of her expectation that God is who God says God is.
A sacrifice.
She wept.
She could have done it privately, but she did it publicly.
She humbled herself in such a way that she got on the floor and she cleaned his feet with her hair.
What is your offering?
What will you bring to Jesus?
What will you say?
God, I know I've been kind of just half doing this.
I'm all in.
God, I don't know how I'm going to do it, but I'm going to do it.
You've been saying that you want me to, so I'm finally going to do it.
I'm gonna show up for the least of these.
I'm gonna show up in the sanctuary.
I'm gonna show up for you, Lord.
I'm gonna show up for the kids.
I'm gonna show up for society.
I am going to bring an unlikely offering to God.
And don't forget,
The Luke text says, and you shall go in peace.
Want peace?
It's going to take a sacrificial offering.
You want peace?
You're going to have to get real and vulnerable in the presence of the Almighty God.
You want a lint that actually means something?
It's going to take a gift of love, devotion, or generosity that may seem unexpected, unusual,
or unlikely.
What shall it be?
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, we pray.
Amen.